Exploring Self-Employment Opportunities for Persons with Developmental Disabilities 
Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PsF9fs5DFIc
♪
(Renate) So many families will look at someone who is
self-employed and say "Oh that's great.
That's fabulous."
But that wouldn't work for my son.
He's got these barriers,
or she's, you know living with these challenges...
But you know the more stories that are out there
and the more examples that we have,
and there's a lot, it can be for everyone,
it's just thinking outside the box.
I think that many people understand
that their adults with disabilities have value,
and they don't really know...
how to,in quotes, "sell that" to an employer.
So, starting a business means we get to, as families,
get to have some control over what it is that gets offered
and the way in which it gets offered.
(Renate) It's not very often that people think
they want to be self-employed.
Because a lot of people don't know what they want
and they don't know what they're good at
and so that's where we start pulling things out,
and then we see, and then they see
"Wow, that's an opportunity."
(Deborah) Anthony at your Service is a business
that specifically employs adults with autism
and other intellectual disabilities
to do pick ups, deliveries, and errands, in the Edmonton area.
Hello!
We were realizing that there's going to have to be something.
He can't go to school for his entire life...
And so we started thinking, "What will we do?
What will we do?" And we started tossing around
what does Anthony like?
Well Anthony likes traveling around listening to music,
he likes seeing the world, he likes helping,
and he likes to carry things for people.
And the light went on and it was like
"That's what it is, it's deliveries."
So that was when Anthony at Your Service was born.
It was just intended for Anthony at the beginning,
but like, people wanted to help, so all of a sudden
we had way more work than we thought,
and after about the end of the first year,
we started being asked to do jobs at times
when we didn't have someone working with Anthony
and I thought,
"Here's a job for more people."
I think Anthony at Your Service is a great model
that other families can use,
they looked at what his strengths were
and they built the business around that.
And sometimes it is a really small niche
but a lot of times there is potential for that.
(Ellen) Alex's Assistance is a shopping business basically,
if you need...
items purchased, Alex will go do that for you.
He is especially talented at picking cards.
He's very good at finding the right card
for the right person.
We had Alex volunteer at a few places
to see... what options were out there,
but for someone with Alex's disability
the challenge was finding something
that he could say that he liked and he wanted to do.
(Keri) Devon loves animals and loves her independence
and she really struggled finding paid employment.
Everybody was encouraging her to volunteer.
One of her first volunteer jobs was at a groomer's
and she found that she was doing more janitorial work
than really interacting with the animals and that frustrated her.
I suggested that she open her own dog walking business
and she jumped on that.
One of the things we did was create a Facebook page
for her and we also did a promotional video
and put it on her Facebook page
and it really just kind of spread from there.
Step One is figuring out what our individual will want to do
that is sustainable, that he or she likes to do
and that we can stay involved in.
The second part is figuring out the market.
Customers want to support
but they also want the service done appropriately.
We want to make sure that we comply with things like
having a business license, we want to make sure
we've got WCB, commercial insurance, all of those things.
Those are all really important things
that we needed to learn about.
(Renate) I think obviously for the person who is self-employed,
it's empowering. It's not being isolated.
Everyone feels good when they're doing something
that they're good at as opposed to being placed into a job,
where they're trying to make it work and it doesn't.
(Deborah) He likes doing it
because it gets him in the community.
It involves him with people.
He's contributing, he feels valuable,
he's proud of himself.
That's what's important.
(Ellen) I think Alex's business is successful
because it is what he loves to do.
He loves to shop...
He loves to be in the malls where people are
and it's rewarding when you can pick something
that you love and do it for a career.
Those are beautiful!
(Deborah) I know that if you're thinking about self-employment
for your child that you care about his or her quality of life
and this is one way to have a lot of control
and create some really unique and exciting opportunities
for your son or daughter, and for others.
♪